So googleVis is an amazing R package that
connects R to Google's visualization API.
And it's a extremely well developed
R package, and very well documented.
So, it's certainly worth
considering in this class.
So we're just going to go through a couple
of examples of what you can do with
googleVis.
And I think from those,
you'll get the picture, and
hopefully you'll be able
to build off of it.
But it offers a pretty amazing way
to create interactive graphics,
leveraging the existing interactive
graphics that Google already has.
So, let's go ahead and
get started with some basic uses.
We'll go through over some maps, we'll go
over some plots and motion charts, and
things like that are really,
that would be really difficult for
you to create on your own.
But connecting R with googleViz
makes it really easy,
especially if you're familiar with R.
Okay, so let's just get
started with a motion chart.
So, let's go ahead and
create our first plot.
Now, a lot of the syntax in
the way in which these notes,
the R Markdown notes, are given is
really geared toward actually having
the chart embedded in
the R Markdown slides.
And if you load them up, you'll see
that the googleViz chart is actually
part of the HTML document that
gets compiled when this
documents gets knitted.
Okay, but, so
I'm just instead going to show you how to
get to chart by itself, and
then get the raw HTML, for example.
Okay, so let's just say we're
doing library googleViz,
that just suppress package
start up messages.
Obviously, just suppresses
the package start up messages.
So let's go ahead and create our google,
our gVis motion chart.
Okay, so fruits is a data frame.
Okay, there you go.
And you can see how it's set up.
So, fruits.
It's got the different kinds of fruits.
Apples, oranges, bananas,
the year, location, sales,
expenses, profit, date, okay?
And I think if you want to
create a motion chart,
you want to get it set up into something
like this, like a data frame like this.
Okay, so let's go ahead and run it.
And then, the first thing you're going to
want to see is you're going to want to be
able to do is just be able to plot
it by itself and actually see it.
So, what we've done is we've
assigned the output of our
gvisMotionChart to a variable, M.
So, if you now, if you just type plot(M),
okay, now it'll bring up a browser window.
And here's our plot.
And so,
this a lot like the Hans Rosling, or
it's exactly like
the Hans Rosling motion chart.
So, you can click play, and
it shows you things over time, okay?
And you can set what each of
the scales are relative to the columns
of your data frame, okay?
So, maybe we want time on there.
We want profit.
Okay, so
let's see fruit profits over time.
So, you can see it going up or down, and
you can select whether
you just show one or
multiple, or which one's highlighted.
See, there you go.
So, I select apples.
Okay, so
it's a pretty clever little chart, okay?
And it actually also has
different bar charts and
line charts all in the same graph, okay?
So, all of this is,
is a collection of JavaScript that is,
has been organized by the gVis R package.
So, if you want, what you can do, Is
simply type print(M), okay?
And then, it'll act, it'll give you
the relevant, basically, an HTML page.
So, here it is.
Here you can see it defining
the JavaScript data,
describing the JavaScript header,
and so on.
Okay?
But if you go down here, you see it.
It actually creates the page where,
I cant see the beginning of the HTML.
But there, you can see the end of
the HTML, the end of the body, and so on.
Okay?
So, just the object M by itself,
printing M, will print out the page.
Or you can say, for example,
print(M, f File = "test.html").
And it'll create this page for you, okay?
I like to do plot, and then of course
if you want to grab the HTML from
the page directly, after you've done
plot you can, of course, do that.
But this is probably the way
you're going to use gVis.
Either you're first going to create it,
and use plot or
something like that to debug it and
get it looking right, and
then you're just going to want to grab the
relevant HTML code and JavaScript code,
and embed it in a different web page.
If you want to see how to embed it in,
for example, slides or R markdown,
then just look at the actual R
markdown document for this lecture.
Okay.
So, your homework after this first example
is to just recreate this motion chart.
Make sure you can visualize it.
Make sure you can see
it in a browser window.
Get googleVis installed.
And play around with a little bit.
And then, now we'll just work on
to some other different types.